src/pages/index.md, before:

---
title: About Us
---

**Lightning Network Chiang Mai** are a group of cryptocurrency developers and enthusiasts focused on payment channel technology for Bitcoin.

Our aim is to bring about real-world use of lightning by making it *easier* and *cheaper* to join the network.

We dream of a world where anyone can transact freely, without excessive fees, censorship, fear of confiscation or loss of privacy.

### Join us

We hold regular [meetings](https://github.com/lncm/ideas) around Chiang Mai to present and discuss our current projects.

All contributors are welcome to join and all forms of contribution are highly valued, they do not have to be of a technical nature.

Feel free to get in touch via Twitter [direct message](https://twitter.com/messages/compose?recipient_id=1030362335485906944), or otherwise.

### Why Lightning?

The [Lightning Network](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Lightning_Network) allows payments to be made across the Internet within the blink of an eye.

Payments can be smaller than fractions of a cent thus allowing for fairer billing methods, based on actual usage.

Onion-style routing significantly increases financial privacy of transacting parties and since channel peers pay each other directly using Bitcoin transactions, no third party must be trusted.


<div id="bottle-payment-button" data-corner="25px" data-fill="filled" data-size="small" data-color="#000000" data-textColor="#FFD54F" data-service="bottle" data-name="Donate%20to%20LNCM" data-avatar="https://cdn.bottle.li/userimg/a6a7a37fb60c1d66cee5c8f2fbe8151f4e4541bc660f6e72fcef13bbf24f84f6.jpg" data-username="mZc5hVov9V5vhPNAjPnM3W26W4rwgKDq3wGb8W87hLwX" data-text="donate" data-url="https://pay.bottle.li/send/social/" ></div>
<script src="https://cdn.bottle.li/button/bb.min.js"></script>

Commit message:

Add lightning clients and an explanation on the donate button

src/pages/index.md, after:

---
title: About Us
---

**Lightning Network Chiang Mai** are a group of cryptocurrency developers and enthusiasts focused on payment channel technology for Bitcoin.

Our aim is to bring about real-world use of lightning by making it *easier* and *cheaper* to join the network.

We dream of a world where anyone can transact freely, without excessive fees, censorship, fear of confiscation or loss of privacy.

### Join us

We hold regular [meetings](https://github.com/lncm/ideas) around Chiang Mai to present and discuss our current projects.

All contributors are welcome to join and all forms of contribution are highly valued, they do not have to be of a technical nature.

Feel free to get in touch via Twitter [direct message](https://twitter.com/messages/compose?recipient_id=1030362335485906944), or otherwise.

### Why Lightning?

The [Lightning Network](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Lightning_Network) allows payments to be made across the Internet within the blink of an eye.

Payments can be smaller than fractions of a cent thus allowing for fairer billing methods, based on actual usage.

Onion-style routing significantly increases financial privacy of transacting parties and since channel peers pay each other directly using Bitcoin transactions, no third party must be trusted.

### Try out lightning!

For a proof of concept demo, we recommend the following lightning clients:

#### Non-Custodial Wallets

Wallets where you have full control over your funds

- iOS and Android: [Breez Wallet](https://breez.technology/)
- Linux/Windows/Mac/Mobile: [Lightning labs desktop](https://github.com/lightninglabs/lightning-app)  [Android/iOS version](https://github.com/lightninglabs/lightning-app/tree/master/mobile)
- Android only: [Eclair Wallet](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair-mobile)

#### Custodial Wallets

Wallets where you don't have full control of your funds (works like a bank, but not regulated)

- iOS and Android: [Wallet of Satoshi](https://www.walletofsatoshi.com/)
- iOS and Android: [BlueWallet](https://bluewallet.io/) (Note that [by default it is custodial](https://lndhub.io/about) but [you can set up your own version](https://github.com/BlueWallet/LndHub). )

Once you have one of these wallets installed, you may add some funds similar to how you would fund a normal wallet and try the donate button (no need to send a lot, lightning works with a fraction of a cent!).

<div id="bottle-payment-button" data-corner="25px" data-fill="filled" data-size="small" data-color="#000000" data-textColor="#FFD54F" data-service="bottle" data-name="Donate%20to%20LNCM" data-avatar="https://cdn.bottle.li/userimg/a6a7a37fb60c1d66cee5c8f2fbe8151f4e4541bc660f6e72fcef13bbf24f84f6.jpg" data-username="mZc5hVov9V5vhPNAjPnM3W26W4rwgKDq3wGb8W87hLwX" data-text="donate" data-url="https://pay.bottle.li/send/social/" ></div>
<script src="https://cdn.bottle.li/button/bb.min.js"></script>
